Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to use some javascript in order to create our shopping cart
from the items that were outputting from the last lesson.
So we saw that we can output some items.
I'm going to put a space in there and also what I want it to do is I want to add a little bit more styling
so I know I've got this class of product items.
So let's go up over to our CSSA and let's do some quick styling for here.
So what I wanted to do is I want to turn this more into a button type format so let's do that quickly
solid and black.
So give it a button line.
I'm going to get rid of the text decoration.
So that is going to get rid of the underline.
So set that to none.
Let's give it a background color so the background color is is green.
So nice green buttons clickable buttons.
Click color.
So maybe the color can be this color.
So it doesn't really matter because they're just trying to demonstrate.
So just so it floats.
Oh puts a little bit better.
And most of the Course most of this lesson I do want to focus on the Javascript.
So let's do a quick refresh and we've got some buttons and I think some padding would help as well.
So we add in just a little bit of padding around those buttons.
So now go back and refresh it.
So now we've got some padding around that button and we're all ready to go.
So next thing that we want to do is we want to make these buttons clickable so something to happen whenever
these buttons get clicked.
So we already do have hyperlinks but we know that with the hyperlinks alone it's not going to really
do anything.
So we need to add event listeners.
So this is the next step is to make these buttons clickable and then we're going to pick up the information
contained within the data attributes.
So no as we're looping through it once we add that HMO.
So basically what we should do is we should set up an initiate.
So whenever the page loads that's when we can build that.
So do window on load.
And what do I in I.T..
And then we're going to wrap all of this in a function.
I N I T.
So that whenever the page loads then we know that we can take care we can handle all this.
So basically this is actually going to be the build so just call it function build
items and then within here so this is where we're actually going to build all of those items into the
HMO.
So let's let's just set that up as separate functions.
So when we launch or I NIIT first thing we want to do is build our items and then the next thing that
we want to do is we want to set up our our Make these are clickable.
So I know that we've just added them here within the team Mel.
So the next step is we could add in an on click event to them.
So basically on click and going into a function on click.
So that would probably be one of the easiest ways to do that.
The other thing that we can do is that we can attach event listeners.
So maybe we're going to do that.
So let's do a loop and we'll loop through.
So first of all we need to do get queries selector.
So we'll just do.
Q And this one is documents get elements where I actually we're going to do queries Selectric just to
be different.
We could get the elements by class name as well so let's do queery selector.
All because we want to pick up all of the elements with the class so the class that product item class.
So it's pick that up and now we need to loop through it.
So set up
and I'm going to pull this x value out here so that it's it's a local variable within that function.
So that I can use X against variable x equals zero and we're going to loop while the value of Q length
while X is less than the value of Q length.
And we're going to increment X so there is or loop and next thing that we need to do is add an event
handler.
So we've got Hugh X..
So for the item event listener and the listener that we want is a click and we're just going to do the
function here.
So whenever it gets clicked it passes over the event information and then let's make some use from it.
So the first thing that I want to do because we did set these as hyperlinks is we need a way to actually
disable the hyperlinking.
So one of the earlier lessons we did show you one of the methods in order to do that.
So what I want you to do is pause the video and add in a way in order to prevent the default action
of the hyperlink from firing off.
So go ahead and add that in and I'll show you the solution so the solution is to take that event object
and pass in the method prevent default so basically that cancels the event out.
So now all of these clicks all of these links are no longer going to go anywhere.
They're not going to do anything.
And that's exactly what we want to happen.
And instead we want to add in a function so let's call it add to cart.
And here we can pass over we can simply launch the function and the next thing that we need to do so
that we can test to make sure that everything is working.
So to cart and remember we're going to pick up that information from the the surrounding attributes
here whenever the hyperlink gets clicked.
So we're going to be able to use that and pick up the information.
So if we do a console log and if we
do events
target so event target passes that information and if we want specific we look at data so we can look
at the data set.
So I think we are ready to do one more quick look through and then we should be ready to try that within
our Web page.
So go ahead save that and go out to your web page refresh it.
And now whenever we click we see that we are picking up that information.
So we're actually picking up that data that data set value so it's sort getting rate to the ID name
price and the value.
So we're able to pick up all of that information sitting in that hyperlink.
And now we can actually use this information to actually add items into our shopping cart so ready to
start adding these items because you can pick them up within this add to cart and we can simply add
them into our cart.
So that's going to be the next part of coming up in the next lesson.
We're going to start adding items into the cart.
So what I want you to do now is practice developing building out these dynamic hyperlinks that you can
set event listeners to and then pick up the attribute information when they get clicked.
So go ahead and try that out in the next lesson.
We're going to be looking at how we can store this information back into the storage and make use of
it whenever the user comes back and loads to the page.
So I'm going to be showing you that coming up.